Add Tuist registry CLI commands (#7160)
tuist/tuist: docs/docs/en/guides/develop/build/registry.md

---
title: Registry
titleTemplate: :title · Build · Develop · Guides · Tuist
description: Optimize your Swift package resolution times by leveraging the Tuist Registry.
---

# Registry {#registry}

> [!WARNING] BETA

> > This feature is currently in beta. If you encounter any issues, please report them at our <LocalizedLink href="https://community.tuist.dev/c/troubleshooting-how-to/6">community forum</LocalizedLink>.

Reviewer: You don't need a localized link here. Those are for links to other documentation pages and the component ensures that the locale information is preserved:

```suggestion
> This feature is currently in beta. If you encounter any issues, please report them at our <a href="https://community.tuist.dev/c/troubleshooting-how-to/6" target="_blank">community forum</a>.
```

> [!IMPORTANT] REMOTE PROJECT REQUIRED
> This feature requires a <LocalizedLink href="/server/introduction/accounts-and-projects">remote project</LocalizedLink>.

> As the number of dependencies grows, so does the time to resolve them. While other package managers like [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/) or [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) are centralized, Swift Package Manager is not. Because of that, SwiftPM needs to resolve dependencies by doing a deep clone of each repository, which can be time-consuming. To address this, Tuist provides an implementation of the [Package Registry](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-package-manager/blob/main/Documentation/PackageRegistry/PackageRegistryUsage.md), so you can download only the commit you _actually need_. If the package is in the [Swift Package Index](https://swiftpackageindex.com/), it's also in the Tuist Registry.

Reviewer: What do you think if we are explicit about the fact that the "deep clones" happen when we are doing a clean/cold resolution?

Reviewer: Also, what if we mention the following:
- The registry mirrors Swift Package Index.
- It does so serving copies of versions in a global/edge storage for minimal latency.

Author: > What do you think if we are explicit about the fact that the "deep clones" happen when we are doing a clean/cold resolution?

It's not just clean and cold resolutions – anytime a dependency is missing or you updated them, you'd end up doing deep clone as well. I'd rather keep the phrasing around deep clones as-is instead of trying to capture all the scenarios when SwiftPM actually does a deep clone.

I updated the docs a bit for the second comment.

## Usage {#usage}

To set up and login to the registry, `cd` into your project's directory and run:

```bash
tuist registry setup
tuist registry login

> ```

Reviewer: As a reader that's coming across this feature for the first time, I'd wonder the following things:
- Why not a single command?
- What does setup mean and why is it needed?

Author: I added some small notes for each of the commands.

+   .package(id: "pointfreeco.swift-composable-architecture", from: "0.1.0")
]
```

### Swift package {#swift-package}

If you are working on a Swift package, you can use the `--replace-scm-with-registry` flag to resolve dependencies from the registry if they are available:

```bash
swift package --replace-scm-with-registry resolve
```

If you want to ensure that the registry is used every time you resolve dependencies, you will need to update `dependencies` in your `Package.swift` file to use the registry identifier instead of a URL. The registry identifier is always in the form of `{organization}.{repository}`. For example, to use the registry for the `swift-composable-architecture` package, do the following:
```diff
dependencies: [
-   .package(url: "https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-composable-architecture", from: "0.1.0")
+   .package(id: "pointfreeco.swift-composable-architecture", from: "0.1.0")
]
```

## Continuous Integration (CI) {#continuous-integration-ci}

To use the registry on your CI, you need to ensure that you have logged in to the registry by running `tuist registry login` as part of your workflow.

> Since the registry credentials are stored in a keychain, you need to set it up as well. Note some CI providers or automation tools like Fastlane already create a temporary keychain or provide a built-in way how to create one. However, you can also create one by creating a custom step with the following code:

Reviewer: I'd add a link to Fastlane's website.

```bash
TMP_DIRECTORY=$(mktemp -d)
KEYCHAIN_PATH=$TMP_DIRECTORY/keychain.keychain
KEYCHAIN_PASSWORD=$(uuidgen)
security create-keychain -p $KEYCHAIN_PASSWORD $KEYCHAIN_PATH
security set-keychain-settings -lut 21600 $KEYCHAIN_PATH
security default-keychain -s $KEYCHAIN_PATH

> security unlock-keychain -p $KEYCHAIN_PASSWORD $KEYCHAIN_PATH

Reviewer: Not necessary to address here, but some kind of `tuist keychain create --ci` or something along those lines would be awesome.

Author: > Not necessary to address here, but some kind of tuist keychain create --ci or something along those lines would be awesome.

I don't think that creating a keychain is a concern that should be handled by Tuist. This rather fits into the idea of Tuist Workflows where you could create a temporary keychain using a library.
